Fire, Explosions, and so, so much more!


Mar. 22, '21 - Black Powder!
	This morning, SWIM went to Lowe's and picked up the last of the supplies SWIM needed for black powder!
	Spectracide Stump Remover for $6 / lb of KNO3.
	Ridge Charcoal for $8 / 16 lb (Carbon source)
	And a few days ago, SWIM picked up dusting sulfur, like for your lawn, from ACE hardware.
	
	My first recipe:
	100 grams total.
	75% KNO3, 'straight from can'
	15% Charcoal, crushed in-between plastic bag inside paper bag, then blended to a powder
	10% Sulfur, 'straight from can'
	
	Results:
	It worked! Burns rather quickly (~1-2sec).
	Ignition isn't the easiest with a soft flame, but a 'jet' or 'torch' flame works great.
	It melts through aluminium foil if you try to test it on that, so SWIM think it's working rather well :).
	SWIM want to try some different compositions now.
	
	Batch 1:
	Black Powder, my first recipe
	10 grams total.
	75% KNO3
	15% Charcoal
	10% Sulfur
	
	Batch 2:
	Blasting Powder, used for mining rock
	10 grams total
	70% KNO3
	15% Charcoal
	10% Sulfur
	
	Batch 3:
	British Gun Powder Mk. VII
	65% KNO3
	20% Charcoal
	15% Sulfur
	
	
	Batch 4:
	Sulfur-free Mealed Powder (SMP)
	10 grams total
	70.5% KNO3
	29.5% Charcoal
	
	RESULTS:
	Batch 1: Sparks, bright flame, quick burn, long ignition.
	Batch 2: Faster ignition, less sparks, much brighter, longer burn.
	Batch 3: Even faster ignition, sparks like B1 but bright like B2.
	Batch 4: SPARKS! Long ignition, slow burn, lots of spewing & spitting.
	
	British Gun Powder Mk. VII is what SWIM uses as an ignition source, while Gunpowder/SMP is what SWIM uses for main fuel, for looks.
	
	By ripping ~100mm wide sections of paper towel, and measuring out 1.25g of Gunpowder, as well as 0.25g of BGP Mk. VII, you can make an improvized firework.
	Start by dumping the main fuel across the towel, so that it can be rolled up later. On one end, put the BGP Mk. VII, and remember to ignite from that end.
	Roll up tightly.
	Light and enjoy!
	

Mar. 23, '21 - Nitrocellulose!

	The night before, SWIM prepared a solution of Sulfuric Acid and Potassium Nitrate outside in the ~0 ºC weather.
	
		35g KNO3
		50mL H2SO4
	
	It froze immediately upon adding, and was impossible to stir or remove from the glass, so SWIM let it sit overnight, inside where it was warm.
	SWIM believes the freezing problem was due to being outside in 0 ºC weather.
	In the morning, the 'ice' remained, so SWIM started stirring, and it incorporated after 5-10 minutes of stirring (my poor arms).
	
	After that, SWIM was left with a yellow-brown, viscous goop that SWIM had to somehow soak cotton in.
	To be exact, 4g of cotton.
	SWIM went outside, where it was cold, and let everything cool down. While SWIM was doing that, SWIM weighed out the 4g of cotton SWIM needed, from cotton make-up removal pads.
	With everything ready, SWIM added the cotton into the solution, and started 'mixing'.
	It seemed more like folding at this point.
	After 5 minutes of stirring, SWIM gathered it all in a pile using my stir rod (a pipette), and left it to soak.
	SWIM checked on it after ~15 minutes, and the cotton on the outside had dried out and was white again in some spots.
	So, SWIM stirred it again. After a thorough mixing, SWIM left it in a blob to soak again.
	When SWIM came back, this time after 45 minutes, the blob had turned to a puddle.
	Any remnants of cotton that were stuck together was now evenly distributed within the goop.
	
	SWIM prepared a solution of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda, NaHCO3), and set it beside the container with the solution and cotton in it.
	SWIM slowly scooped over all the cotton SWIM could from the solution, making sure to go slowly to prevent a foam-over.
	After adding it all, and the foaming had died down, SWIM brought the (now non-toxic) cotton-baking soda solution inside.
	SWIM used a coffee filter in a small, red, automotive funnel to act as a washing setup. Slowly, SWIM washed all the cotton with water.
	The draining takes FOREVER! Vacuum filtering would be a giant plus, maybe even just a buchner funnel in general.
	
	After washing it 5-10 times, over the course of the whole day, SWIM can safely say it is rinsed now.
	SWIM is going to leave it in the automotive funnel to dry overnight, then pick it out in the morning.
	SWIM is worried that if SWIM tries to remove the filter now, the wet paper will just rip immediately.
	
	Hopefully, by mid-day tomorrow, SWIM will be left with dry, white nitrocellulose!
	Testing will commence, but SWIM will update this entry before doing so as to the state of the dryness of the material in the morning.
	
	It is the morning of the 24th of March, 2021. 
	
		The nitrocellulose has all coalesced, SWIM guesses you could say, into one big conglomerate.
		It was still quite wet. SWIM decided it was time to remove it from the funnel, and into the open air-stream of the evaporation station.
		SWIM decided to pull the filter out, and lay it on the wire shelf for drying from beneath and above.
		It was quite easy to remove, and the cotton being all in one big piece is very helpful, as opposed to the tiny bits and balls that it was before.
		SWIM used a paper towel to squeeze out some water, just by pressing on it from the top.
		SWIM spread it as thin as it could go while still being well within the boundaries of the filter paper, and left to dry completely.
		
		It is 1300 hours, and there is a yellow color developing. It was much whiter when wet, and is slowly getting more 'crisp' as it yellows.
		SWIM read online that truly dry nitrocellulose is white, and that the yellow goes away as it dries completely, but SWIM would be surprised if this was the case.
		SWIM tested a few dry, crispy pieces about 3-5mm in diameter, and they have not burnt at all. 
		Hopefully, this is due to it still being slightly wet, and not because of impurity or incomplete reaction, or not enough washing, something. :\
		
		Yeah, SWIM may have screwed something up somewhere along the line... They are all crispy dry, but dark, dark brown. Maybe SWIM didn't wash the acid out well enough?
		SWIM is not sure. Or it's leeching from the coffee-filter somehow. SWIM doesn't know. SWIM is sad.
		
	
	NEXT TIME: 
		
		Don't cool the H2SO4 and KNO3 while dissolving, only while adding the cotton, otherwise the Potassium Carbonate and Potassium Sulfate formed can't dissolve and it ends up crashing out, and freezing the solution.
		&
		Make more!
		&
		Don't let it sit in the funnel, just take the wet filter out. It doesn't do much drying in there.
		A hair dryer can help speed things up, but not towards the end as the cotton becomes light enough that it can blow away.
		&
		Use a different recipe, more liquid so it's easier to mix and stuff (2 cups H2SO4 + 1 cup KNO3 + 10g cotton, from schel sullivan on YT).
		
	

Mar. 25, '21 - Manganese Heptoxide!
	
	Mn2O7, manganese heptoxide, can be formed by adding KMnO4, potassium permanganate, into an excess of H2SO4, sulfuric acid.
	A green oil can be seen forming over the period of 15-60 seconds; this is the manganese heptoxide.
	Having a whopping seven oxygen molecules, Mn2O7 is a powerful oxidizer.
	Because of the strength of this oxidation, the reaction can be quite vigorous.
	Almost any organic material can be oxidized by manganese heptoxide.
	Organic solvents, like ethanol, often detonate upon addition.
	Organic materials, like cellulose, ignite upon contact.
	Plastics will be oxidized, but SWIM has not tested this, as it will generate many nasty fumes.
	That being said, plastic reaction vessels will not work for this reaction. Glass only.
	A jar upside-down works great, as well as keep the volume synthesized small, which is always good.
	Any larger amount than 1.5g of KMnO4 added to an excess of H2SO4 is highly not recommended for safety reasons.
	
	FUELS TESTED:
	
		Cotton Ball: Ignites upon contact, pops for a few seconds, then burns the cotton to ash.
		
		Denatured Alcohol (Ethanol + Propan-2-ol): One drop pops and snaps upon contact and sends unreacted alcohol flying. A mL detonates with a large fireball, popping and crackling for 15-120 seconds afterwards.

	Apr. 2, '21 FUELS TESTED: 
		Paper Towel: Ignites READILY. Similar to cotton, but more pops and snaps.
		
		Aluminium foil: didn't have a reaction with the Mn2O7, although the H2SO4 did start dissolving it.
		
	
	SWIM wants to try more fuels: Charcoal Powder, Gunpowder, Printer Paper, PLA Plastic, Fruit Peel, Cotton Swab (Q-Tip), etc.
		
	

Mar. 26, '21 - Nitrocellulose, but less idiot.

	Nitrocellulose is relatively easy to make, when you aren't a blubbering fool with no brain.
	SWIM must have been born yesterday with the amount of stupidity carried out through that first nitrocellulose attempt.
	
	So, let's go through a few things SWIM now knows:
		- Don't use a funnel and filter to wash something that isn't a fine particulate or toxic, just wash it with your hands!
		- Don't use a make-up product and expect purity of any kind!
		- Don't make a tiny amount of something that is cheap but takes a lot of work! Just do it in bulk, and if it doesn't work, it's cheap, that's okay, try again.
		
	
	Now, let SWIM tell you about today:
	
		A nitration solution made up of KNO3 and H2SO4 was prepared the night before.
		1 cup of KNO3 to 2 cups of H2SO4.
		Chunks of KNO3 remained, but I decided to push forward anyways.
		The recipe called for 21 cotton balls, so 20 were used, hoping that they are a similar size.
		After plopping and pushing in the 20 cotton balls, 15 minutes are let pass by. At this point, the mixture is stirred again.
		After a thorough stirring, the mixture was left to nitrate. This can be anywhere from 1 hour to 6 hours.
		SWIM decided to give it a thorough go-around, and let it nitrate for a good 4-5 hours.
		A large container of water was prepared, as well as a large container with baking soda in the bottom, and some water.
		The cotton balls were transferred from the nitration mixture to the water. After two to three were in the water, I would stir until all color was homogeneous.
		After stirring, the slightly-rinsed cotton was transferred to the baking soda container to neutralize.
		Expect foaming, lots of it.
		After enough cotton had built up in the neutralization solution, it was transferred to another container with baking soda in the bottom.
		After what felt like an eternity, all of the cotton was neutralized and in one container.
		The cotton was then taken to a sink, and rinsed by filling the container and mixing for some time.
		To collect the cotton, SWIM used my fingers like a fish-net to gather as much cotton as possible, and ring it out by squeezing it into a ball in my fist.
		The cotton should be rinsed and rang many times, at least five. If not, the cotton can have baking soda left in it, and baking soda extinguishes fire, making this whole process pretty useless :).
		The good news is you can always rinse it, even if you forgot and dried it first.
		At this point, the cotton was a light-yellow color, and the water was clear coming off of it.
		SWIM started to get excited, as the texture resembled cotton, and not a plastic soup like the last batch.
		The cotton was left to dry (dried with paper towel, pressed into pieces, set in front of fan).
		After about one hour, the cotton has whitened, and feels very dry.
		A small burn test still shows that it is wet, so it will be left dry for a few more hours, then do a proper test, and weigh my yield!
		I ended up waiting overnight.
		
	

	Mar. 27, '21 - Nitrocellulose, but it works!
	
		It is the next morning. 
		An imprecise scale showed 15g of nitrocellulose as my final, dry yield. I will have to weigh my cotton balls to figure out rough yield %.
		
		APR. 2, '21 EDIT - AVG COTTON BALL WEIGHT IS 1.02 grams. Assuming every cotton ball to be average, 20 cotton balls multiplied by 1.02g each equals 20.4 grams of cotton.
		~15 grams nitrocellulose / ~20.4 grams cotton = ~73.53% yield
		
		Theoretical Maximum is ~85%, thought to be due to the complete oxidation of cellulose to oxalic acid.
		
		Burn test concludes that this is properly nitrated cellulose! 
		Not as fast as 'professional' nitrocellulose/flash paper/flash cotton, but it is so much faster than regular cotton.
		It also leaves minimal residue/ash, and burns before it hits the ground, even in modest amounts.
		Definitely enough for a magician, or a layman like SWIM that just likes explosions and fire :).
		To further nitrate the material, it can just be 'double-dipped' and ran through the whole process again, treating it as starting material.
		This would create 'insoluble nitrocellulose' which has a nitrogen content higher than 12.6%.
		Insoluble nitrocellulose is classified as a high explosive by the ATF :(.
		However, soluble nitrocellulose (nitrogen content ≤12.6%) is not technically classified as a high explosive, and is therefore not illegal to manufacture or posess.
		
		(Nitrocellulose will be referred to as NC through-out the following text.)
		
		Aluminium Foil makes a great 'pop' when rolled around a cylindrical object (like a pen), filled with ~0.25g NC, the ends pinched and folded closed, and then heated with a BBQ lighter.
		Anything more than 1g would be kind of risky, and would require extremely serious safety precautions.
		
		SWIM feels rather uneasy about storing over 10g of the stuff.
		It is within a plastic container, with the lid closed. 
		Ideally, it would be in glass, but SWIM does not own anything large enough to store the NC safely.
		The reason for this being that plastic can hold a charge much more easily than glass can, and it could potentially (but very unlikely) make a spark.
		SWIM has read that NC can be stored more safely if wet with alcohol, but it seems like this would make it easier to ignite due to the vapors, at least in this case.
		
		
		Some Facts:
		
		- Nitrocellulose with less than 12% nitrogen concentration is not deemed an explosive (and therefore not illegal, technically), and is soluble in a mixture of acetone/ether.
		This soluble nitrocellulose is sometimes referred to as 'collodion'.
		
		- Nitrocellulose with more than 13% nitrogen (sometimes called insoluble nitrocellulose) can be prepared by prolonged exposure to hot, concentrated acids.
		This method was used to make naval mines, warheads, torpedoes, and blasting explosives for mining.
		After production of 'guncotton' started in the 1860s by Waltham Abbey Royal Gunpowder Mills, the material rapidly became popular, and dominated the explosives industry.
		This W.A.R.G.M. guncotton was the main source for military warheads at the time.
		
		- In 1832, Henri Braconnot discovered that nitric acid and wood fibers created a lightweight combustible explosive. He named this 'xyloïdine'.
		
			In 1846 (thereabouts), German-Swiss chemist Christian Friedrich Schönbein spilled a mixture of sulfuric acid and nitric acid on the kitchen table.
		He reached for the nearest towel/cloth to clean up the mess, and grabbed a cotton apron just by chance.
		After soaking up the mixture, he hung the apron on the kitchen stove door to dry.
		As soon as it was dry, a flash occured as the apron ignited. 
		Christian Friedrich Schönbein went on to develop a method to make this flammable material: immerse one part fine cotton in 15 parts equal mixture of sulfuric acid and nitric acid. The cotton was then dried slowly at 40 ºC.
		This method was widely used upon publishing.
		However, Christian Friedrich Schönbein did not work alone on this paper.
		Rudolf Christian Böttger independantly discovered a similar process, so they worked together to figure out the best method, then published it.
		
			Coincidentally, another chemist, F. J. Otto had produced 'guncotton' in 1846 and was the first to publish the process, which was largely similar to Schönbein and Böttger's method.
		This largely upset the German Chemists.
		
			With this new 'guncotton' invention patented, of course companies were itching to get their hands on it.
		One company, John Hall & Son, bought the rights to the patent of F. J. Otto's 'guncotton', and immediately started industrial manufacturing.
		Due to the manufacturing process not being fully understood, adequate safety measured were not put in place.
		The cotton, after nitration, was not properly washed. When nitrocellulose from the nitration mixture goes unwashed, or is not washed properly, some dilute acids will linger inside the nitrocellulose.
		Once dry, the evaporated water concentrates the trace amounts of acid. This can further nitrate any cellulose that went unreacted.
		Over time, the nitrogen content keeps rising, and rising, and rising. As this happens, the chemical becomes more unstable, and more likely to spontaneously combust, even at room temperature.
		Because of this, unwashed nitrocellulose is often referred to as 'pyrocellulose'.
		
		Unfortunately for the hard-working employees of John Hall & Son, less than a year into production, in July of 1846, that is exactly what happened, killing almost two dozen workers.
		Twenty lives were lost because someone forgot to wash... 
		Needless to say, the factory was immediately closed.
		Guncotton manufacturing was shut down prety much globally, at least until a safer method came around.
		
			This is where the British chemist Frederick Augustus Abel developed a safe method for guncotton manufacture.
		The method proposed by Fred extended the washing and drying of the nitrocellulose to 48 hours, as well as repeated eight times over to ensure leftover acids were washed out.
		The nitration mixture was changed from equal parts sulfuric acid and nitric acid to two parts sulfuric acid, one part nitric acid (1 H2SO4:1 HNO3 -> 2 H2SO4:1 HNO3).
		Nitration can be controlled by adjusting acid concentrations, as well as reaction temperature.
		
	

		NEXT TIME:
		
		- RECIPE RATIOS: "schel sullivan" on YT has the best recipe, which is similar to Frederick Augustus Abel's recipe, who patented the method in 1865.
			( 2 cups H2SO4 : 1 cup KNO3 : ~20g cotton )
		
		- RECIPE INGREDIENTS: 
			Testing other cotton sources would be very interesting, like cotton paper, cotton clothing, cotton yarn, and coffee filters.
		
		- RECIPE INGREDIENTS: 
			As well as other cotton sources, testing different cellulose sources other than cotton would also be very interesting, like tissue paper, toilet paper, printer paper, paper towels, and cardboard.
			Some sort of testing method will have to be developed! 
			Maybe DSLR video + Shitty-Phone-Slo-Mo would gather enough data on each one. 
			Test equivalent weights, volumes, etc, and qualitatively compare, maybe.
			
		- SAFETY:
			When storing large amounts of Nitrocellulose (which looks deceivingly small), it is safest to store wet under alcohol, ideally.
		
		
	Apr. 06, '21 - DIY Fuse
	
		This didn't happen today, but yesterday on the fifth.
		
		4 meters of 100% cotton twine was prepared, along with a mixture of 36g KNO3 and 24g sugar (60:40).
		Oh yeah, and around 60mL of water.
		
		A pan was preheated to ~medium heat.
		
		Once hot, water was poured in. Upon adding, it should boil immediately.
		
		Add mixture of KNO3 and sugar to boiling water. It should fully dissolve.
		
		Boil until supersaturated. Looks frothy/foamy and forms skin on top.
		
		Add string, holding onto one end so it doesn't tangle in the pan.
		
		Soak up solution evenly into string, then transfer string to baking sheet into final shape.
		
		Move baking sheet into preheated oven @ 150 ºC (300 ºF) for 20 minutes. 10 minutes in, halfway through, nudge fuse so it does not stick to sheet.
		
		Ready to cut and use once cool.
		
		
		RESULTS:
		
			Well, it's done! It's cool! It's not the most reliable fuse, but with three bundled together it's not a bad failure rate. Just one on it's own can go out easily, though.
		The burn is fairly consistent, and it lights very, very easily. The shortcomings are largely the fault of the preparation.
		It's possible the reason one goes out on it's own is due to the size of string used, or because it's 0 ºC, or because SWIM put it in to the solution too late, so it didn't soak in fully...
		Either way, this is definitely worth it, and a fun project! SWIM will be looking into alternative DIY fuse methods, however.
		
		MAY 03, 2021 UPDATE: IT'S NOT COOL, IT'S NOT WORTH IT, ALTERNATIVES ALSO SUCK.
		
	

Apr. 19, '21 - Micrograin

	Micrograin is a mixture of zinc powder and sulfur, resulting in a flash powder pyrotechnic composition. 
	Although this was first researched as a rocket propellant, it was never pursued due to it's low energy density, and tendency to detonate in the rocket.
	The mixture has a varying burn rate depending on how compressed it is, like most flammable powders. The more compressed, the slower it burns. 
	Zinc and Sulfur in a 2.04 to 1 ratio by weight can burn anywhere from 14 to 290 inches per second depending on level of compression.
	
	The following was done before the above research, so a ratio of 80% zinc to 20% sulfur was used.
	This is quite different from the 2.04:1 ratio that is recommended by most people that have made the material, however, I will continue on with what happened.
	
	Zinc powder isn't expensive, but waiting for shipping would suck just for something not to work, and to be left with a ton of useless metal powder.
	So, to test things out, and not just put money into the fire, a source of zinc was found: pennies minted post-1982.
	A stack of ten pennies were clamped in a vice, and a piece of paper was taped precariously to the vice in order to catch any shavings off of the pennies.
	A metal file was used to grind the pennies into a fine powder to be caught by the paper.
	Every once and a while, the paper was tipped and collected into a paper cup, as it was a common occurence to bump the paper while filing.
	Once enough penny powder had been collected (~5g, two pennies worth!), 0.8g of it was measured out. To this, sulfur was added until the scale read 1.000g. There was an error made here, and it actually ended up reading 1.050g.
	Despite this, I continued on with the experiment. The mixture was placed in a steel dish, in a well ventilated area.
	Using a soft flame lighter (BBQ lighter), no ignition occured after one full minute; the color did shift darker and it melted together, however.
	To get a higher activation energy, a hotter and/or larger flame could be used, or something like a magnesium strip would probably work.
	A propane blowtorch was ignited, and the flame aimed at the mixture. In around ten seconds, a bright green flash erupted, followed by a (still very bright) yellow-orange flame that died down slowly into a molten slag.
	It worked! 80:20 is definitely viable, but here's the theory: the extra sulfur in the recommended 2.04:1 ratio will make it easier to ignite, possibly by a soft flame?
	
	UPDATE: 67.1:32.9 (2.04:1) is the best ratio tested so far. Still requires large amount of activation energy (blowtorch), but the ignition is a lot faster (~3 sec vs ~15 sec). 
	It is also more efficient, meaning less flame leftover after, and more of the powder used in the combustion.
	
	

Apr. 2?, '21 - Actual Gunpowder

	Gunpowder isn't as simple as it seems. Turns out the manufacturing process has an extra step that SOMEBODY didn't know about :(.
	But now SOMEBODY does :).
	
	Basically, the dry mixture that SOMEBODY called gunpowder is wet with a little bit of water. This is then pushed through a screen, and allowed to dry. 
	This forms the granules of gunpowder (previously called grains), and this burns much more quickly than the dry-mixed stuff.
	
	Thinking a 25g batch of actual gunpowder is more than plenty, but not enough to have to store it long after it's needed. This is ideal.
	
	Here's a plan:
	
		1.) Measure out the standard 75:15:10 and mix thoroughly. Record actual weights of each ingredient, as well as final mixture weight.
			
			KNO3:			18.75g
			CHARCOAL:		3.75g
			SULFUR:			2.5g
			
		2.) Wet with SMALL amount of distilled water. Just enough to turn it a darker color.
		
		3.) Push the wetted powder through a window-screen, forming small granules.
		
		4.) Dry the small granules by means of evaporation. DO NOT HEAT TO DRY!
		
		5.) Once dry, weigh the granules and record the weight.
		
			5a.) How much powder was lost in the screening process?
			5b.) How does the burn of the wet-screened mixture compare to the burn of the dry mixture, and why?
			
			
		
	RESULTS:
	
		18.751g	KNO3
		3.751g 	CHARCOAL
		2.510g	SULFUR
		25.012g	TOTAL
		
		To this, water was added 0.5mL at a time until a dark color was reached. 3.5mL of water was added in total.
		This caused the light-grey powder to turn dark-grey and slightly clump up.
		
		The wet powder was pushed through a window screen. 
		The idea is that this forms granules that are dense and well-mixed.
		But, since they are granules, the space in-between them allows for extra surface area during the burn, increasing the burn rate.
		
		Once this was done, the powder was moved to a vacuum chamber with dessicant in the bottom. A vacuum was pulled for twenty minutes, then it was shut off and left to sit in the vacuum for the same amount of time.
		After this, it was removed from the chamber and a burn test (~0.5g, 0.630g actual) was done. It did light with a soft-flame, however it fizzled out quite easily. Presumably, this is due to water that is still present.
		
		To get rid of this water, the powder was put back in the vacuum chamber, and left for ~2 hours, 'refreshing' the vacuum occasionally. 
		Once this time was up, another burn test (~0.5g, 0.560g actual) was performed. Similar result: fizzled out multiple times, but eventually the whole thing burned.
		
		Since it was still wet, the powder was put in a sealed container with a lot of dessicant, the hope being that overnight it would pull the most of moisture out of it. 
		This works for things like 3d-printer filament and pieces of wood, so the hope is it works for this too.
		
		
		UPDATE: After overnight in the dessicant chamber, the powder was crisp and dry when handling.
		Burn test concludes it ignites and burns rather well. Woo hoo! It's not completely ruined.
		It's easier to ignite, burns faster, and looks much more glamorous (white flame, sparks) than just the dry mix.
		
		Doing some research online, it was discovered that the longer the powder is wet, the less effective it is. This is due to the KNO3 dissolving in the water present.
		Then, if it's wet for a long time, evaporation is happening very slowly. This causes crystals of KNO3 to be able to grow, ruining the fine mix of the powder.
		This causes 'hot-spots' and tends to fizzle itself out, as well as burn very slowly, if at all.
		
		Now knowing that water is evil, the depths of memory were accessed and something was found: isopropyl alcohol is better at 'wetting' things than water. It also evaporates faster.
		This means the powder could be wetted, screened, and then dried relatively quickly.
		
		A batch of 40g 75:15:10 KNO3:Charcoal:Sulfur was measured out and mixed.
		8mL of 70% propan-2-ol was added to the powder. This turned it a dark color, as well as making it clump up slightly.
		Once thoroughly mixed, the powder was pushed through a window-screen, creating small, well-mixed granules.
		The granules were then transferred to a piece of paper and spread out evenly. This was left in the sun for ~2 hours, stirring occasionally.
		After the two hours, the mix was very dry (comparable to overnight in the dessicant chamber), so a burn test was in order.
		Around half a gram was measured out in a small pile. With a small, soft flame (terrible BBQ lighter), the mix ignited within a few seconds.
		
		It burst into a white flame, while at the same time sending showers of sparks everywhere. This is much better than just the dry mix!
		
		It also isn't too difficult to do, just wet the powder with some iso, screen, then leave in the sun to dry.
		Can be done in (less than) one day!
		
		SWIM would also like to try the 'actual' method of making gunpowder; first, KNO3 is dissolved in boiling water. 
		Charcoal + sulfur is added to form a slurry, then this slurry is dumped into a bath of isopropyl alcohol, screened, and dried.
		
		As well as the boiling method, SWIM thinks that maybe the powder was just not wet down enough to granulate properly.
		To test this, a 40g batch of 75:15:10 will be mixed up and wet with a LOT of alcohol, until it seems like it could form one solid mass.
		Then, this will be screened and dried. The idea here being that stronger granules are the result of the really wet mixture going through the screen.
		
		APR. 25, '21 - UPDATE
		
			The extra alcohol in the mix did wonders. Instead of adding 8mL, small amounts were just dumped in and the stopping point was by texture.
			It eventually reached a sand-castle-like consistency, and that seemed to be a good texture to push through a screen. The mixture was balled up, and some plastic wrap was used to mash it through the window screen.
			These granules were then spread out in the sun to dry.
			
			Once dry, a burn test was conducted; the mixture erupted into sparks and a bright white flame, burning entirely within a few seconds.
			It's not the fastest black powder, but it is better than before.
			
			Here's one problem: the granules are too fragile once dry.
			When mixing to dry out in the sun, the granules would crumble back into a fine powder. 
			This isn't a giant problem, as it still is very flammable and better than the dry stuff, but it seems to be reducing the potential effectiveness.
			To combat this, a binder could be used to harden the granules. IDextrin isn't very good for hardening (sticky), but SGRS seems to dry into a concrete-like hardness, which is exactly what is needed.
			
			Here's another problem: the coarseness of the ingredients.
			The charcoal was crushed with a hammer and then blended and sieved, however the KNO3 seems to be in small crystals like table salt or sugar.
			The sulfur comes in a 'dusting powder' so it is very finely ground already. 
			It seems the KNO3 needs a similar treatment to the charcoal: blended and sieved.
			To do this safely, the entirety of the blender will be washed thoroughly, making sure no charcoal residue is left inside.
			If any fuel is leftover, the oxidizer can ignite it and turn the blender into a *ahem* 'device', and not the kind you keep in your pocket and watch YouTube on...
		
		
		






STUFF THAT COULD BE DONE:

 - Aluminum FP
 
	[BY] Gary Chen, Mark Motyka, Jay C. Poret	PATENT NUMBER US7578895B7		TITLE: Perchlorate free flash bang compositions for pyrotechnic training rounds
	[INGREDIENTS]
		- Al						Metallic Fuel				Aluminium, Magnesium, Magnalium, Silicon, Zirconium, or combinations
		- KNO3						Oxidizer					Potassium nitrate, strontium nitrate, copper nitrate, or combinations
		- S							Non-metallic Fuel			Sulfur
		- H3BO3						PH Stabilizer				Boric Acid
		
	[COMPOSITON 604]
		- 40% 	Al
		- 54% 	KNO3
		- 5%	S
		- 1%	H3BO3

 - DIY FUSE
	Methods:
	- Slow Burning Fuse - (ALSO FEATURED IN 'Making Sparklers', RELEASED ONE YEAR LATER)
	[BY] TKOR - Grant Thompson
	[INGREDIENTS] 4m COTTON YARN | 36g KNO3 | 24g GRANULATED WHITE TABLE SUGAR | 60mL water | OPTIONAL: FOOD COLORING
	[PROCEDURE] Prepare a mixture consisting of 36g of KNO3, and 24g of granulated white table sugar. Preheat a frying pan to medium heat. Add 1/3 cup water. 
		Once boiling, sprinkle in the full 60g mixture. Stir until fully dissolved, evident by a clear solution.
		Boil until very frothy/foamy. Add cotton yarn, holding onto one end to prevent knotting.
		Continue heating to drive off most of the remaining water, trying to make sure the solution soaks evenly into the yarn.
		Once the yarn has soaked up most, if not all, of the solution, spread on an oven baking sheet in a pattern reminiscing a sine-wave, like how long lines go back and forth, or zig-zagging, crocodiling, etc.
		This is to ensure long, straight pieces of fuse, as it will be rigid after this next step.
		The baking sheet goes into an oven set to 150 ºC (300 ºF) for 20 minutes.
		Haflway through baking, remember to nudge it slightly to prevent sticking to the pan when cooling.
		After the time is up, it is taken out and left to cool. A golden-yellow color is expected.
		When cool, it will be fully stiff. Cut at bends for pieces of long, straight, and rigid fuse to store.
		KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT, SPARK, FLAME, AND MOST OF ALL: DON'T BE STUPID! (this parts from SWIM).
		
	
	- Black Powder Fuse
	[BY] TKOR - Grant Thompson
	[INGREDIENTS] STRIPS OF TISSUE PAPER, FINE BLACK POWDER
	[PROCEDURE] Prepare a strip of tissue paper, wetting down to keep from blowing away, and easier to work with.
		Add black powder length-wise, from end to end, leaving a little bit of room to fold/roll/twist it closed.
		Start rolling fuse by taking one corner of tissue paper, and rolling at a 45º angle, as tightly as possible.
		Continue this for the entire length of tissue paper.
		Once rolled up, let dry overnight, and the fuses are ready to be used (although, in a pinch, they also burn right away with good enough black powder).
		
	
	- Black Match (Actual Black Powder Fuse)
	[BY] UNKNOWN | MANY ONLINE SOURCES
	[INGREDIENTS] BLACK POWDER, WATER OR ALCOHOL, COTTON STRING/TWINE
	[PROCEDURE] Wet black powder down until it is a thick slurry. Be careful to not add too much liquid; add small amounts at a time and mix thoroughly.
		Soak cotton twine in slurry, trying to coat everything evenly. Once thoroughly soaked, the string can be removed from the slurry and left to dry (preferably in the sun).
		The string will become rigid once it dries, so be sure to arrange it in straight lines while it does for ease-of-use and storage.
		
	

 - DIY CANNON
	
	A little cannon sounds like a lot of fun. As long as it doesn't employ the use of more than 1/4 oz (7 grams) of explosives, it is not a 'destructive device' and is not federally illegal in the United States.
	However, other laws are often the problem, as in 'endangering others' or 'disrupting the peace'. Any loud bangs or flying projectiles are a large attention grabber by LE.
	The idea is to make it small enough as to not have a LOUD bang, but still big enough to have a fun one :).
	
	[PROJECTILE]
	1/4" steel ball bearings as ammo.
	
	[IGNITION]
	Slow Burning Fuse (detailed above) for the fuse that goes into a drilled hole in the side of the steel pipe.
	
	[FUEL]
	Gunpowder as a fuel? Or maybe nitrocellulose. Either way, it will be fun :).
	
	[COMBUSTION CHAMBER]
	1/8" steel pipe nipple as the 'barrel'. 
	1/8" Schedule 40 Steel Pipe has an ID of 0.269", which should be just big enough to fit a 1/4" steel ball bearing.
	Why is a 1/8" pipe actually 1/4"? IDFK.
	Also, a 1/8" steel end cap for one side of the nipple pipe (pipe nipple?).
	

 - STARLITE FORGE - cheap metal melter!
	[BY] NightHawkInLight - DETAILED HERE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmEb1YZScxc
	
	[MATERIALS]
		STARLITE MIX:
		10 PARTS	- FLOUR
		5 PART		- CORN STARCH
		5 PART		- POWDERED SUGAR
		5 PART 		- BAKING SODA
		1 PART		- BORAX
		ENOUGH WATER TO GET TO CLAY-LIKE CONSISTENCY (~250ml / kg)
		
		ANY STEEL CONTAINER
		
		BLOWTORCH WITH STEEL NOZZLE, SOFT FLAME
		
	
	[PROCEDURE]
		MIX DRY STARLITE INGREDIENTS.
		ADD WATER UNTIL CLAY-LIKE CONSISTENCY IS REACHED.
		
		MOLD STARLITE MIX INTO METAL VESSEL, ATTEMPTING TO KEEP IT EVEN THICKNESS ON BOTTOM AND SIDES.
		
		DRILL HOLE FOR TORCH NOZZLE IN SIDE OF METAL VESSEL, NEAR BOTTOM.
		
		WAIT TO DRY, AT LEAST OVERNIGHT TO A FEW DAYS.
		
	

 - Acetone Peroxide - THE MOTHER OF SATAN - You shouldn't do this
 
	[MATERIALS] Acetone, 30% Hydrogen Peroxide, HCl acid, Toluene
	
	[PROCEDURE]
		H2O2/acetone/HCl in 1:1:0.25 molar ratios, using 30% hydrogen peroxide.
		
		Start by mixing the acetone and hydrogen peroxide together.
		Add the HCl acid to the chilled mixture of H2O2/acetone. 
		If the reaction is allowed to heat up, formation of chloroacetone (WWI tear gas) is likely, as well as formation of the monomer and dimer, which are highly unstable compared to the trimer.
		By using HCl as the acid-catalyst (and keeping everything cold), we are mainly forming the trimer, called TATP, with the formula C9H18O6.
		
	
	[SAFETY]
		THIS IS A STUPID THING TO MAKE, AND UNLESS YOU ARE READY FOR THE WHOLE BATCH TO EXPLODE AT ANY MOMENT, DON'T DO THIS!
		
		SHOCK, FRICTION, HEAT, STATIC SENSITIVE, EVEN WHEN WET.
		
		If sulfuric acid is used as the acid-catalyst, the final product is known to be very unstable, detonating at temperatures as low as 50 ºC (122 ºF).
		
		Without the use of an ice bath, tear gas is formed, as well as highly unstable and explosive monomers and dimers of acetone peroxide.
		
		Attempting to purify by recrystallization has been known to spontaneously combust, due to large crystals forming with a lot of internal stress, which is enough to initiate the reaction.
		
	
	[DISPOSAL]
		Rendered benign when dissolved in toluene, even in saturated concentrations.
		'Almost' no risk of detonation, according to ScienceMadness wiki.
		This solution can then be refluxed in the presence of a copper salt (like Copper(II) Acetate), which will reduce the acetone peroxide, destroying it.
