## Experiments with Household Chemicals:
	
	
	- Copper(II) Acetate - Feb. 14, '21
	
		First crystallized Feb. 14, '21 by electrolysis of copper metal (my dad had about ~2 ft. of bare, braided copper wire that was like 0AWG, and he was willing to part with it :) in a ~1:1 ratio of household vinegar (5% Acetic Acid) and hydrogen peroxide.
		I did this on a small scale in an old, polypropylene spice container. The 'crystals' were mostly powder, except for one or two 0.5-1mm crystals.
		The color was beautiful, and I knew I was on the right track, so I knew I just needed to do more. I made more solution and poured it into an old tupperware container with two sections. One was skinny while the other took up the rest of the container.
		I filled both sides with the same amount of solution and waited for evaporation.
		After ~3 days I was left with a nice set of crystals in the large, flat dish, ranging from powder to 4mm clusters. I was really excited!
		The other side took longer to evaporate, and only left me with a powder for some reason...
		I collected both sides separately in some foam-topped glass vials and labeled accordingly. This was on Feb. 28, '21.
		
		After doing this a few more times to replenish my copper metal crystal grow, I've had some issues with my process.
		I never measured the solution ingredients, as you kind of just need both present (or so I was told).
		A few times during electrolysis, the solution would turn green instead of blue, and foam like crazy, sometimes spilling out of the container.
		There isn't a lot of documentation on this, but I think I've figured it out. The solution had too much H2O2 which has a pKa of like 11, which turned the solution basic.
		As there was still acetic acid present, the electrolysis caused the formation of Copper(II) Acetate, however, in the basic solution, it immediately converted into Basic Copper Acetate. 
		There's not a lot of info on this, but the wiki says that this basic copper acetate is the main blue-green color of verdigris, or copper corrosion. I'm assuming this was a bulk of the green color I was seeing.
		However, if the solution was REALLY basic, it's possible the basic copper acetate hydrolyzed into copper carbonate, which is much more green than both the basic and standard forms of copper acetate.
		To fix my problem, I could simply add more vinegar to the solution. This would reduce the pH, making basic copper acetate unstable, and form the copper(II) acetate that we need again.
		I could also start trying different solution ratios (2:1, for example), and maybe try actually measuring!
		
	

	- Copper Metal Crystals V1 - Feb. 15, '21
	
		First Crystallized Feb. 15, '21 by Electrolysis of Copper Electrodes within saturated Copper-salt solution (Copper(II) Acetate, in this case).
		At this point, I realized my vessel was all wrong. I used a mason jar, which was too tall and skinny and not wide and fat. 
		My anode was very uneven with lots of pointy ends (I just bent the braids of the wire in different directions on a 2d-plane).
		This caused the crystals to mostly grow at the points that were closest to the cathode, as that is where the copper ions and electrons had the least resistance through the solution.
		Next time I would use something like a tupper-ware container to allow for more room between the electrodes, meaning bigger crystals can form (and less current flows).
		Also, a 'flatter' anode would do better. I think I could bend a copper wire back and forth in sort of an accordian shape, or like the lines used to be sectioned off at the movie theatre for a better crystal-growing medium.
		Using a USB phone charger for power.
		
	

	- Electroplating Copper - Feb. 16, '21
	
		Coins + 'Clay' Tool electroplated successfully (even layer and strong enough to buff with copper cleaner) on Feb. 16, '21
		
	

	- Boom Baloons V1 (H2 Gas) - Feb. 19, '21
	
		Synthesized H2 gas by reacting 'Muriatic Acid' (20% Aqueous HCl) with aluminum foil in a skinny-necked glass container so I could pop a baloon over the top. 
		This was not the best way of collecting it, as the apparatus got too hot, but it worked :)
		Next time I would like to attach tubing to the reaction vessel and bubble the gas through some water (maybe with some NaHCO3 in it or something)
		
	

	- Copper Metal Crystals V2 - Feb. 20, '21
	
		Started on Feb. 20, '21 with an accordian-ed copper wire as the anode (-), and that same braided copper wire I got from my dad as the cathode (+).
		I knew this was a longer-term experiment, so I used two 6" sections of the wire and connected them using some tiny copper wire I had laying around, both above and below the solution.
		This is when I made a huge mistake. I put fresh vinegar and hydrogen peroxide in the vessel, thinking it wouldn't take much as the mason jar only took a few hours and wasn't even noticeable on the electrodes.
		The doubled-up cathode dissolved way faster than I thought it was going to due to the reaction vessel I was now using (a cleaned-out Breyer's Gelato container) being much bigger than the mason jar I was using before-hand.
		Also, the copper wire I used to connect them electrically all dissolved wherever it was touching the solution after one day, so there was only one high-resistance connection up where they were taped together outside of the solution still.
		This did not go very well, and no crystals grew at all before one day I checked on it and a bulk of the wire was sitting on the bottom of the vessel. 
		The top portion was still taped to the top and connected electrically, but had dissolved at the gas-liquid interface due to the presence of extra O2 faster than anywhere else, causing the cathode to pinch itself off from the solution.
		Using a USB phone charger for power.
		
		NEXT TIME: I need more copper (expensive, ugh) mass on the cathode. 
		Or I could just think slightly ahead and pour in already-saturated solution, meaning I don't have to dissolve heaps into the fresh vinegar/H2O2 mixture.
		I think the accordian style ~14AWG copper wire worked great as the anode in this case.
		The container seemed really good for this sort of thing, although it evaporates rather quickly, meaning refills are quite frequent (~1-3 days interval)
		Maybe a lid/bigger box for it to sit in would reduce the evaporation, and also make it safer from passers-by.
		
	

	- Copper(II) Chloride V1 - Feb. 21, '21
	
		First started by dissolving copper metal in HCl. To do this, you could boil it, or just add an oxidizing agent. I used 3% hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) as it is cheap.
		I did this in a clear polypropylene (PP) spice container with what looks to be an LDPE lid, but there aren't any markings to be sure. 
		Within a few hours of mixing everything, it was already a dark-green color. I used a pipette to put a drop on some aluminum foil, and the HCl and CuCl2 foamed and bubbled like crazy, forming a metallic orange precipitate. 
		This small experiment confirms the presence of copper(II) chloride, so I decide to wait for the solution to saturate, then evaporate it and see the spiky crystals, as there's only like one picture on Wikipedia (and it sucks (no offense)).
		After 2-3 days, it was so dark I couldn't see a bright flashlight shining through it. It looked black, but where it was thin there was definitely green present. I transferred it to an old cream cheese container for evaporation.
		On Feb. 26, '21, small, needle-like clusters of crystals started to grow on the surface at various points after 2 days of evaporating. Later in the day, they had more than doubled in quantity and size.
		The next day, the needle-like clusters were above the surface of the solution, and there was just some in the bottom around the edges. I continue to evaporate and dry the solution.
		Over the next few days, small stalagmites started forming and reaching up into the air, above the previous flat layer where the crystals formed on the top of the solution.
		I kind of couldn't believe it, and I definitely couldn't find anything online on this, but, man, was it beautiful. It looked like coral with a bunch of spiny sea urchins underneath. AMAZING RESULTS!
		On Mar. 2, '21, the crystals had changed from a green color to a light-blue. This indicates that most of the HCl had evaporated, and little to no chlorine was left. They were also dry, and crackled whenever I touched the container.
		I decided it was the crystals time to be stored. I flexed the container so the crystals could break off the surface into chunks small enough to fit into the small mason jar I was planning to store them in.
		I used some tweezers to transfer the crystals to a small mason jar with what looks to be an aluminum lid. Don't shake it and it should be fine :}
		
	

	- Aluminum Can -> Plastic Bag V1 - Feb 22, '21
	
		We've had these tiny soda cans sitting in the basement forever, so I decided to finally use them. I saw a video by NurdRage about how aluminum cans have plastic liners, and you can see that by dissolving it away.
		I thought this would be really cool to see, so I opened up a can, popped a skewer through the pop-tab, and suspended it in a plastic container I got from take-out (thanks Pho).
		In another, identical container, I added some HCl (forgetting to dilute it at all (NR used 5%, I have 20%)). 
		I also sanded the bottom and sides of the can before I forgot (do this before you open it, dummy).
		After this, I could dip the can in the acid, it would dissolve, then I could set the remaining bag of soda in the identical, empty container, and the drips of acid wouldn't do any harm to anything. 
		It would also keep the rather fragile plastic bag intact, and in the case of that failing, would contain the sugary mess.
		Upon dipping the can, there was furious bubbling and slight splashing from when there was enough gas in the upside-down cup on the bottom of the can to push itself out and escape.
		Obviously, this was happening because I forgot to dilute it, which I also remembered at this moment.
		The acid got very hot with each dip of the can, but, slowly and surely, I was steadfast.
		Eventually, the bottom 3cm or so of the can were plastic only, but the heat had popped the bag, spilling the soda into my empty container :(.
		Next time, I need to dilute the acid for a less-violent reaction. This way, I could leave it dissolving for ~1 hour, then come back and take it out without woorying about heat, or furious foaming.
		
	

	- Carbon Snek - Feb 2?, '21
		
		Sulfuric acid is available as 'Kleen-Out' drain opener at Wal-Mart in a relatively high (93%) concentration. It is a thick, syrupy liquid, and completely clear.
		Sugar, also known as glucose (C12H22O11), is a good fuel source, as it has the perfect ratio of H to O to make water molecules.
		
		C12H22O11 + H2SO4 + 1/2 O2 = 11 C + CO2 + 12 H2O + SO2
		As the sulfuric acid reacts with the water produced, a secondary reaction occurs: the break-down of glucose due to temperature.
		C12H22O11 + (heat) = 12 C + 11 H2O
		The water keeps reacting exothermically with the H2SO4, meaning it keeps getting hotter and hotter, breaking down the sugar, and the loop continues until it is out of one of the reactants.
		
		I used a random amount of sugar and acid in an old tomato sauce jar, outside. After mixing, there was a distinct caramel smell given off by the sugar being heated.
		After 15 seconds or so, the sugar had turned to brown, and was blackening as time went on.
		I suspect this to be the carbon forming from the first reaction, as well as water.
		This water dissolves the sugar and dilutes the acid, which is exothermic.
		After about 30 seconds, it was appearing to grow upwards. After a minute or two, it had grown to about 4x it's height in the jar (or just peeking over the top rim).
		It smelled terrible at this point (presumably SO2 trapped in the carbon foam, along with CO2, and some H2O).
		Clean-up was awful. The carbon foam is one of the messiest things I have ever dealt with.
		
	

	- Chemical Garden - Mar 1, '21
		
		Video by NurdRage outlines the classic chemical garden experiment. Silicon Dioxide can be found in 'crystal cat litter'. Sodium Hydroxide can be found as drain cleaner, lye, and other things.
		I followed the procedure outlined in the video very closely, only differing in my option of container, which was a giant old Bacardi bottle I had lying around from when my brother lived here.
		I mixed the dry ingredients (60g SiO2, 30g NaOH). To this mix, I added 100mL of water (I don't have a grad. cylinder or anything so I just weighed 100g). The heat drives the reaction forward, so add it all at once.
		Wait overnight (or longer) for the SiO2 to 'completely' dissolve. It's okay to have 5-10 grains of litter in the bottom, but a sizeable amount means the reaction did not get hot enough and so could not take place.
		After the solution is clear, add ~800mL of water to dilute the solution of Sodium Silicate. After this, add and place your transitional metal salts for all the colors and all the shapes! It's really cool.
		I'm really happy with how this turned out and I wish I had more metal salts to try out! So cool to see them grow over 15 minutes, and even more-so after a day!
		
	

	- Hot Ice (Sodium Acetate) - Mar 2, '21
	
		All you have to do is mix vinegar and baking soda (slowly, in a big pot). This creates sodium acetate. For hot ice, I was told you need relatively pure sodium acetate, so I decided to recrystallize it.
		To do this, I boiled it down in the pot I reacted it in (convenient, eh?). It took like 8 hours on my cheap hot plate, but, finally, I noticed the 'skin' forming on top of the solution, which tells me it's done at this point.
		I transfer it (STILL HOT!) to a PP container, and cover to let cool slowly on the kitchen counter (yay food safe chemistry). After cooling, I transfer it the freezer to crystallize the sodium acetate, and then wash it.
		This is where it didn't exactly go as planned. For some reason, the solution decided to supersaturate in the freezer, and not crystallize (Damn you, clean containers!). 
		This means the vinegar was all mixed with the sodium acetate and the only way to separate it now would be to do the reaction and save the remnants to recrystallize that.
		So I did that. I tapped the container, sloshed it, took the lid off, stirred it. Nothing. No crystallization, no hot ice, nothing. I was devastated. 
		Just as I was ready to throw the whole container in the garbage, it started to form hot ice before my eyes. It was really cool and looked like a 3D snowflake growing in the liquid.
		After this happened, and I was done oggling it, I let it sit in the container on the kitchen counter again, covered. It was a liquid again after a few hours, so I decided to put it back in the freezer.
		This time, crystals formed, and I was able to pour off the vinegar, and wash the remaining sodium acetate crystals. I saved a few (although not enough) in a small PP vial that looks to be an un-blown-up 2 liter soda bottle.
		The rest, I dissolved in some hot water, and did the whole recrystallization process again, this time aiming to supersaturate it, for hot ice. It worked first try, and my little sister had fun playing with it.
		I tried saving it and doing it again, but it seems like a contaminant built up, or something got into the solution, as it wouldn't supersaturate.
		It ended up just freezing in the freezer, or staying liquid but never icing up, even upon taking it out and placing sodium acetate crystals in.
		
	

	- Green Fire (Salting out propan-2-ol, copper acetate and copper chloride flame test) - Mar. 2, '21
	
		On Mar. 2, I tested 70% propan-2-ol (isopropyl alcohol) with copper chloride. The alcohol and crushed crystal were added onto a glass surface and ignited. The alcohol burned blue until it went out, leaving behind a wet powder.
		I surmise that there's too much water, so I look into higher percentage alcohols. Due to the pandemic, these are hard to buy right now, but I found a solution. Propan-2-ol can be 'salted-out' to it's azeotrope, which happens to be quite high at 95%.
		The procedure is simple, just add salt to the propan-2-ol, and it will make salt-water, which is heavier than alcohol and sinks to the bottom, allowing the top layer of propan-2-ol that is floating to be used/carefully collected.
		I added ~250mL to a mason jar with a cm of salt in it, and started shaking (after capping). 
		I shook for about a minute, then let it settle to the two layers many, many times. 
		Partially because I wanted the water out of the alcohol, and partially because it looked like ghostly particles breaking the veil.
		This was really easy, and I was now ready to test with a higher % alcohol! I got more crystals crushed into powder, and prepared it on the glass surface. Onto it, I pipette a few drops of the propan-2-ol I just salted-out, ignite, and! nothing....
		Still a blue flame until it dies out. Leaves a relatively dry powder though, which is nice, or something. I was bored that it just did the same thing, so I used the torch-lighter I was using and started hitting the powder directly.
		This made a bright green flame that was really beautiful to see, so I kept torching the powder, kind of forgetting something...
		After a few minutes of this (yes, I'm that easily distracted) the glass surface I was using exploded everywhere. Ugh. I went and brought the shop vac in to clean up...
		At this point I realized it just won't work with propan-2-ol and I'm going to have to bring out the big guns. Ethanol. That's right, it's a frat party now.
		I picked up some denatured alcohol (which is just ethanol with some propan-2-ol in it so you won't drink it) because I'm under-age and can't buy Everclear :(.
		I added the old powder and some new powder onto a glass surface. Onto the surface, I pipette a drop or three of the ethanol. It turns green with the hue of wet copper chloride almost instantly, and keeps getting darker.
		I let it mix and dissolve the powder for a few seconds, not wanting the volatile liquid to evaporate too much, and then ignite it. Poof! Up arises a green flame. A
		And it burns for quite a while, even leaving behind more copper chloride that I could keep adding fuel to!
		This is a beautiful flame and I am so happy to have finally achieved it. I want to get/make an alcohol candle just so I can have a green candle :)
		
	

	- Disinfectant from Pennies (Zinc Chloride) - Mar 5, '21
	
		Pennies minted after 1982 are 97.5% Zinc metal, with just a thin coating of copper making up the remaining 2.5%. HCl does not react with copper metal at ambient, room temperature conditions, but zinc does.
		To expose the inner core of zinc, I cut up four pennies using a vice and some small bolt cutters. I'm pretty sure this is illegal as I'm defacing government property, but also fuck pennies, and I'm not making money at all from this sooo oh well.
		After desecrating the law of my forefathers, I plopped the results into a mason jar, and added some 20% aqueous HCl on top. 
		I did the stoichiometry and it turned out I needed 12.3576213535mL of acid for each penny. I just added 75mL to have an excess of acid (which I now know was a mistake).
		The pennies did dissolve rather quickly, and it was fun to watch the light copper plating dance around in the solution around the bubbles. Luckily, it reacted rather fast, and only took a few hours to showing any signs of reaction.
		Turns out, ZnCl is VERY soluble in water, meaning it kind of sucks to evaporate. This is why the extra acid was a problem. It's not the acid, per se, but the water IN the acid that I now have to wait for to fly away like Peter god-damned Pan.
		Because of this, I boiled it right after the pennies were done reacting and filtered out. It got down to ~30mL when I stopped, and also turned yellow for some reason.
		
		It is Mar. 12 and I am still evaporating that solution down. It's currently at about 15mL if I had to estimate, and still yellow.
		
		It is Mar. 14, and I have boiled the solution down on the hot-plate in a sand bath.
		The liquid slowly turned more and more brown from some sort of contamination while heating.
		At some point, the ZnCl started crystallizing out, which is when I turned off the heat and let it cool down to the point I felt comfortable moving it.
		Once cool enough, I transferred inside to completely cool to room temperature.
		I am planning to put it in the freezer in order to get the most crystals out of the water as possible.
		
		It is now Mar. 20, '21, and I totally did not put that in the freezer at all. I did some research (that I should have done before-hand) and realized I have nothing to wash the crystals with :(.
			This means I left them in the brown liquid they were in to evaporate.
			At some point, it did turn into a solid, with an ultra-hard, gel-like substance forming at the bottom of the jar.
			However, after a few days, this solid returned back to a brown solution, show-casing the deliquescience of this chemical.
			It really is weird to leave something a solid and have it just turn into a liquid, but not by melting. I think I would need some dioxane to be able to clean this up, so at this point it's kind of pointless...
			Oh well!
		
	

	- Zinc Acetate - Mar 5, '21
	
		Pennies minted after 1982 are 97.5% Zinc metal, with just a thin coating of copper making up the remaining 2.5%. Acetic acid does not react with copper without the presence of oxygen at ambient, room temperature conditions, but zinc does.
		To expose the inner core of zinc, I cut up four pennies using a vice and some small bolt cutters. I'm pretty sure this is illegal as I'm defacing government property, but also fuck pennies, and I'm not making money at all from this sooo oh well.
		After desecrating the law of my forefathers, I plopped the results into a mason jar, and added ~200mL 5% aqueous Acetic Acid on top.
		I did the stoichiometry and it turned out I needed 42.6856296mL per penny, so I rounded up to 50mL for an excess of acid.
		Almost immediately, bubbles started forming VERY slowly. It took about 20 seconds for one bubble to get big enough to actually float out of the solution.
		Due to this slow reaction speed, I decided to put it on the magnetic stirrer, assuming this would speed it up quite a bit.
		It did not... After three days of stirring it was still bubbling, so I decided to give the motor a break, and let the rest happen naturally.
		I took it off the stirrer and set it on a shelf to react for some time.
		At five days after the solution was added to the pennies, it was still bubbling about the same as it was on day 3.
		Day 7 is a similar story, with less bubbling until you tap or jar the container, at which time everything releases it's bubbles at once.
		I let this go for ~10 days and then transferred it to a dish for evaporation.
		
		Mar. 20, '21 - The solution is about 20% of what it was before, volume-wise.
			I presume there to be another week before it's dry; there is about 100mL left.
			The solution has taken on a slight cloudiness, and is definitely more viscous than water would be.
			
		Mar. 22, '21 - WOW! Beautiful, large crystals have grown. I really am shocked at the visuals of these.
			There are hexagons, rhombii, and all sorts of polygons. Clear, slightly cloudy color.
			There are three distinct, large crystals, about 1cm in diameter forming in the center.
			Around the outside of the solution, where it contacts the container, is a large ring of crystals, some just as large as the ones in the middle.
			I need to do more of these!!!!
			
		[EXCERPT FROM CHEMVENTORY SPREADSHEET - UNKNOWN DATE]
			{
				OOH! I did it! 
				I left pennies in vinegar for a week and a half, and was left with a clear solution. 
				I filtered it off, and left to evaporate. The crystals I got were massive! I'm talking a cm, and these were grown in just a few days. 
				They also are very nice shapes, some being hexagons, rhombii, and other polygons. I'm really excited for this to be dry so I can collect and ogle these beautiful, big crystals!
			}
			
		Mar. 23, '21 - I left the solution to evaporate more, and the center distinct crystals have become part of a cluster that spans the entire bottom of the container.
			There is ~10mL left to evaporate, so a day or two more and we should be there!
			I am excited to see if any of the large crystals are salvageable. If so, I am going to immediately coat one in polyurethane to protect it, as I want to preserve these beautiful crystals.
			
		Mar. 28, '21 - I have been checking on it daily for three days now, and notice it is still evaporating nicely. 
		There is just a little bit of Zinc Acetate solution left (~5mL), that seeps below the layer of crystals.
		I'm thinking these will be dry by Easter (Apr. 4, '21), but one can never be sure :).
		
		Apr. 1, '21 - There has to be ~1mL left at this point. 
		Just about every day since last update, I have moved the container as to coat the sides with liquid, to help speed evaporation.
		
	

	- Copper and Nickel Chloride - Mar 6, '21
	
		I've had this solution of Nickel and Copper Chloride in HCl for a long time, just playing with it on aluminum foil to make H2, and so forth. 
		I made it by dissolving US Nickel Coins in HCl and Hydrogen Peroxide. 
		There's not actually that much nickel in nickels though, so this is mostly copper chloride with a tinge of nickel in it (8% MAX).
		On Mar. 6, '21, I decided to retire the solution and evaporate it to it's crystal form. I was hoping that the nickel and copper would separate but I knew that was a pipe dream.
		I filtered the nickels out of the solution, and transferred it to a container to evaporate in (an old, cleaned-out PP cream cheese container).
		
		It is the 12th of March now, and it has finally dried up. No stalagmites formed, like on the pure copper chloride, but large lumps have protruded from the surface, almost like mountains/trees.
		Upon breaking the crystals up, I found there were spiky, needle-like copper chloride crystals underneath the large solid layer that the 'trees' formed on top of. It almost reminds me of trees and grass and caves.
		Beautiful color too! Staying green even when drying out, apart from some of the needles of copper chloride which are turning their characteristic light-blue. 
		I wonder if this will make a good pyrotechnics composition additive? Time to get the ethanol out!
		
		NEXT TIME: To actually progress with my original intent of getting nickel metal from nickels, I think I would need to boil them in HCl, rather than adding H2O2, which oxidized the copper into CuO, which dissolves in HCl.
		I don't think I would need boiling chips as the nickels would act as boiling chips themselves.
		I'M DOING THIS NOW (Mar. 14, '21)! SEE BELOW!! "Nickel(II) Chloride"
		
	

	- Copper(II) Chloride V2 - Mar 6, '21
	
		I've had this solution of Copper Chloride in HCl for a long time, just playing with it on aluminum foil to make H2, and so forth. 
		I made it by dissolving some snipped-up pieces of that wire my dad gave me in HCl with some H2O2 in there. It turned green just like the run I did before, and kept going darker and darker until it looked black and opaque over the next few days.
		After a few weeks or so, here we are. I kind of just had it sitting around and doing nothing now, so I decided to deal with it, along with the nickels I was dissolving slowly (mentioned above).
		I filtered the solution into a clear container to evaporate, and waited.
		
		It is now Mar. 12th, '21, and the crystals have dried completely. They are a fantastic light blue color, almost like light cyan. Along the edges of the container, crystals have crept up the walls, almost like vines, about a mm or so.
		In the center, crystal structures have grown upwards from the solution. 
		It seems like once the solution gets below the height of the crystals, they act with some kind of capillary action, and the crystals grow in the free space above the crystals that already formed and filled most of the container.
		I find this so cool, every time! I can see how alchemists thought metal was alive for a long, long time. Heck, I'm not convinced after seeing some of these colors and transformations that happen :)
		I'm going to let the crystals dry for one more day, then collect them.
		
		Mar. 13, '21 - I have collected the dry crystals and placed them in my copper chloride container, which is now full! 
		I think I could fit more if I crushed some of the clusters of crystals, but I'm not sure what I'm going to do with all of it, so I don't want to powderize it yet.
		The container is a ECO16S glass mason jar, so I don't have crazy amounts or anything.
		I'm going to powderise some for use in pyrotechnics compositions and store in another container for convenience.
		
		NEXT TIME: I'm not sure I would change much, other than measuring the yield and stuff.
	

	- Copper-Ammonia Complex - Mar. 7, '21
	
		I've seen this thing online of copper and ammonia reacting, but it seems like nobody knows exactly whats happening, and it goes through a few stages.
		First, right after the copper and ammonia are mixed, nothing happens. Even after a few minutes, no bubbles form, no nothing. But, after a few hours, I found it turned VERY light blue.
		It was hard to tell if it was even a different color at this point, or if I was imagining it. However, overnight, an amazing reaction occured, as, when I woke up, I found it to be a deep vibrant violet color.
		I really loved the color it produced, so I decided to acquire more before attempting to crystallize it out. There was still plenty of copper metal, so I added more ammonia, about 5x the amount.
		As I added it, a powdery precipitate formed, but as I kept adding, it re-dissolved into a light-blue color that almost looked like liquid oxygen. I stirred it and some precipitate came up from the bottom.
		It was shiny, and reflected light like glitter while it was swimming around the solution. More and more of this has been forming over the next few days. 
		From all the research I've done this powder is copper hydroxide, formed by the presence of copper oxide in basic conditions. However, once it gets too acidic/not basic enough it converts to some copper-ammonia complex that is light blue.
		Conversely, if it gets too basic, a dark blue/violet DIFFERENT copper-ammonia complex forms. Or so I think. This basic copper-ammonia complex is a color I very much like, and am interested in crystallizing out. 
		I will wait for the extra volume of ammonia to take on this color, then evaporate (outside! ammonia stinks BAD)
		
		Mar. 13, '21 - The extra volume has finally reached a color reminiscent of the original. It took much longer than expected, but that's okay.
		I think I will give it a few more days to fully react or do what it is going to do, then I will un-cover it and leave it outside for a long, long time.
		I will cover it with a paper towel or something so that it doesn't get dust/dead bugs in it.
		
		Mar. 17, '21 - After some additional research, I figured out that the complex is not stable without ammonia present. This means as I evaporated it, it would break down into it's components (CuOH + NH4OH).
		Now that I know this, I am going to purposefully precipitate the copper(II) hydroxide out, filter, dry, and store it.
		Entry on this BELOW ("Copper(II) Hydroxide").
		
		NEXT TIME: I would not try to make Copper(II) Hydroxide using NaOH. 
		I would evaporate it down to leave whatever is left behind from the copper. 
		Filter to remove copper metal and other impurities first.
		
	

	- Copper Metal Crystals V3 - Mar. 7, '21
	
		I found a great source for copper metal. Online, a lb of copper is like $15 all the way up to like $40. I found this a little out of my price range.
		Luckily, I did some more digging, and home improvement stores like Lowe's and Home Depot have 10 feet of Type L 1/2in. Copper Pipe for less than $20. That's 2.85lbs of copper for $20... Much better than those prices for copper online.
		I picked up a pipe, bent it in half so it would fit in the car, and walked out of there so happy. I used a hacksaw to cut off ~6" sections, then a vice to flatten them. I drilled a small hole near one end so I could wrap wire around and through it.
		I weighed each one, and they are about 50g of copper. That means I have over 20 electrodes for $20! And they last way longer than that braided wire did, that stuff just fell apart as soon as it started corroding at all.
		I used the same accordian style anode to maximise surface area and crystals grown, but this time used one of my copper pipe electrodes as the positive electrode.
		Using a USB phone charger for power.
		
		It is now Mar. 12, '21, and we have three fairly large (5mm) copper crystals starting to grow! They are forming this bulbous flower-stalk shape that is really cool, and I can't wait for this project to progress. 
		I keep checking it every day and am surprised by the beautiful geometry that this hunk of metal is capable of producing with just a little nudge.
		
		Mar. 13, '21 - It seems like each day a new 'bulb' on the 'flower-stalk' grows. Today there is three large crystals, each with three bulbous sections, almost like peas in a pod.
		Each section has such intricate detail. Spiky fingers reach outward, and the further they reach, the more the center-stalk thickens. It is honestly a beautiful phenomena and I recommend everyone see this at least once.
		The copper pipe electrode has degraded, but much less significantly and catastrophically than the braided wire. 
		The bottom corner, closest to the other electrode, has kind of dissolved into an oxide powder, leaving behind a smooth transition between the bed of insoluble CuO and the green, corroded exterior of the electrode.
		I haven't stirred it at all, except for what happens when I add more solution. 
		There is a few millimeters of copper oxide around the edges of the container, and a lot of black stuff under the positive electrode that appears to have fallen from it.
		The back of the anode has a beautiful glitter-like shine. Due to the slow plating on the back side of the electrode, it has deposited very fine crystals that reflect the light in such a unique way.
		
		Morning of Mar. 15, '21 - The positive electrode has dissolved almost completely. A large amount of what looks to be Black Copper Oxide has deposited itself underneath the positive electrode.
		Presumably, at some point throughout the night, the positive electrode was oxidized to such an extent that it lost structural integrity.
		This caused the portion exposed to the acidic, oxidizing solution to fall to the bottom of the vessel, leaving behind that large mass of Black Copper Oxide underneath the positive electrode.
		The top portion that is connected to power stayed mostly in place, only twisting slightly from it's original position.
		I will be making a few more electrodes from my copper pipe this morning, and replacing the dissolved one, leaving the growing crystals intact and ready to keep growing.
		I made the electrodes, at the same time I cut up a bunch of US five-cent pieces ('nickels').
		I just estimated the length as I forgot to measure the first ones that worked out before they disintegrated.
		I got extremely close, as when I juxtapose them it's almost like a before-and-after line-up.
		The replacement when fairly well, with just some struggles on disconnecting the wire wrapped around the stub.
		There are these beautiful Copper(II) Acetate crystals that formed on the electrode I took out.
		It seems with me replacing it with saturated solution, and also evaporating, more and more Copper(II) Acetate is accumulating.
		This Copper(II) Acetate seems to be attracted to the positive electrode for some reason, which is why there are crystals accumulating on the positive electrode (I think).
		Or, the copper is a great 'seed' for the Copper(II) Acetate, and when evaporating it simply favors the copper metal rather than anywhere else.
		Although if that were the case, the negative electrode would also accumulate crystals, which it does not (at least until now).
		As for the crystal growth, it is going well. Of the three large crystals, one has taken off over the other three. The other two are about equal.
		They stopped 'ungulating' at the third 'bulb'. From this point they have grown out like trees, with the base of them thickening into a lumpy mass instead of branch-like structure.
		It really looks as if it is alive :)
		r/natureismetal on a whole new level.
		The biggest crystal is about 2cm in it's longest dimension, towards the positive electrode.
		The other two are about half of that in the same direction, but retain a similar over-all geometry, if that makes sense.
		There are two 'bulbs' which are formed by the diameter of the crystal oscillating.
		After this, the third 'bulb' is partially formed, but opens into a tree-like structure of brances that reach outwards wider than before.
		This is what gives it the 'tree look', along with one other thing. The crystals at the base started off as branch-like and reaching, just like the top of the 'tree'
		However, over time, these crystals at the base have become more and more lumpy, and less branch-like (meaning the branches have coallesced, in a sense).
		I believe this is due to the increased power needs of the larger and larger surface area of the growing crystal.
		The base is the conductor for all the electrons and they don't like (to anthropomorphize) having to travel through these skinny, long crystals just to get to the nice big, copper negative electrode.
		Because of this, I believe they take little shortcuts, cutting corners slightly near the negative electrode to get to the destination faster (as the solution in between is also conductive).
		As this happens, the same reaction happens where the electron carries copper ion(s) that get plated onto the negative electrode.
		Due to this, it keeps building up the crystals at the base as well as at the tip, I think :).
		
		It is 0800 on a Wednesday, the 17th. The largest copper crystal has made it over half-way to the other electrode! I'm worried about it reaching the fluffy bed of stuff at the bottom and creating a short-circuit.
		I'm pretty sure the bed of stuff that has settled out is mostly white CuO. This would explain it's kind-of ghostly appearance.
		If it is, it's possible to grow crystals from it. The positive electrode (the one being oxidized) has CuO crystals growing on it, as well as Copper(II) Acetate crystals growing everywhere the CuO isn't.
		It really is a beautiful sight, almost like an old ship-wreck underwater.
		I'm thinking about breaking the largest crystal before it reaches the other electrode, allowing all the others to grow more.
		Speaking of the others, there are 2 crystals about half the size of the largest, and 2 more crystals half the size of those.
		Beyond that, it's mostly solid lumps on the wire itself. It almost looks like a mis-shapen Allihn condenser.
		I am so happy with how this is turning out!
		It has been 10 days and I already have such large crystals! From the videos/forum posts online it seemed like it was going to take months to get near this size.
		
		On the night of Mar. 22, '21, I decided it was time to remove the large crystal (it was less than 1cm from the other electrode).
		To do this, I reached in with some tweezers, and the thing immediately broke :(.
		After fishing out all of the pieces I could, I left it overnight, still powered on.
		I put the pieces on a paper towel to dry immediately, then, once I had collected them all, went to the sink and rinsed them thoroughly, on the paper towel.
		After I could see no more blue color from the copper acetate solution coming off, I put them in the evaporation station (shelf with a fan) to dry.
		When I checked on them this morning, Mar. 23, '21, they all looked the same and haven't significantly degraded or oxidized.
		I think I will choose one to keep and spray it with polyurethane to preserve it's color and shape.
		The rest, I will store as elemental copper, for now. The crystal reached about 4cm length in total, but broke into 1-2cm sections.
		The copper is beautiful, and some pieces are actually quite strong, due to them being more bulbous, rather than branch-like.
		I am so happy to have grown these myself, and I can't wait for V4!
		BTW, the short crystals are all bulbous, and I couldn't even remove them from the wire they were growing on :).
		I think I will use these as my 'seed crystals' for V4! I am so excited to have these crystals and the fact I made them myself is so awesome!!!
		I also emptied the solution in the crystal-growing vessel into a container, then filtered that for clean, saturated Copper(II) Acetate solution.
		I know it's saturated because of the 5mm layer of blue crystals that formed across most of the bottom of the vessel. It looks almost like a sludge of crystals, it's really beautiful.
		The crystals are dark-blue, with glitter-like imperfections shining every which way as you look at it.
		I am going to leave the vessel for a while, as I have some other projects I'm working on today.
		I think I will dissolve the crystals in the container in water or something, then pour it off through a filter, and evaporate to get clean crystals. (Recrystallize impure Copper(II) Acetate in bottom of crystal-growing vessel).
		
	

	- Zinc, Carbon, and MnO2 from batteries - Mar. 8, '21
	
		This is very messy. Pretty much any alkaline battery will have zinc, carbon rods, and manganese dioxide powder with potassium hydroxide electrolyte soaked into it. Make sure it is alkaline and not lithium!
		The easiest and most efficient source is those old camping batteries that are gigantic. It's about $8 for 2 of them at wal-mart. 
		I start by cracking open the top with a screwdriver and hammer. Once the plastic top is removed, and the wires connecting everything are cut, it's time to work on each individual cell.
		These batteries have four of them, while a AA battery is the cell itself. Pull out a cell and start prying the metal from the top. It should rip downwards and you should be able to make a metal flower sort of thing, which allows you to access the carbon rod.
		Pull out the carbon rod by grabbing it with some pliers and twisting and pulling. It will pop out audibly. Be careful, these are quite fragile!
		The MnO2 and KOH are beneath the secondary seal, the plastic one. Keep peeling the zinc away until you can remove the second seal, then use a screwdriver to pull/scoop out the MnO2 powder. This is very messy.
		Collect the powder in a zip-loc bag, or alternatively you can wash it in water in order to remove the KOH, but it takes forever to filter off and dry again, so I'll just store it as-is.
		The zinc casings that we are tearing apart can all go in a pile to melt down! Luckily, you don't need a forge to do this, and the stove-top will work great (although I recommend a hot-plate, outside, for safety).
		After abusing all 8 cells of the batteries, I was left with 8 mostly-intact carbon electrodes, a lot of MnO2/KOH mix, and an ingot of zinc that weighed about 150g.
		
		NEXT TIME: I should wash the powder with water to free the KOH, as it is quite caustic. 
		I didn't this time as I don't have the reaction vessels large enough to do this, or any way to filter it (literally not even a 2-liter bottle rn lol)...
		Also, KOH and MnO2 both react with H2O2 to produce O2, which is my main use for this powder, so I don't mind it being mingled and mangled together :).
		
	

	- Fire from Pool Chlorine and Brake Fluid - Mar. 8, '21
	
		This is a very popular reaction and has even been featured on such popular shows as Rhett & Link's GMM. 
		Now, every time I've seen it, it was a spectacular fireball that happened within 30 seconds of mixing the two ingredients, Calcium Hypochlorite pool chlorine, and Polyethylene Glycol brake fluid.
		When I mixed them... nothing. Even after 15 minutes. I assume this to be due to the sub-zero Celsius temperatures we have here right now. So I'm going to wait for summer for a proper reaction.
		I could coax the reaction to happen by lighting the PEG on fire and mixing a LOT until it finally started spitting, bubbling, popping, and then erupted into flame. 
		Which was cool, but it would have been cooler if it didn't take me sitting there stirring it while it's on fire, and happened a little quicker than 20 minutes after mixing the two chemicals.
		Summer, oh how I miss your reactive temperatures :|.
		
		NEXT TIME: Don't do it when it's freezing out, ya jackass.
		
	

	- Copper(II) Acetate Large Single Crystal - Mar. 12, '21
	
		Today is March 12th. I have some old fishing line from my dad, so I can tie a seed crystal to the end and dip it in a saturated solution for it to grow!
		I tied the slip-knot and fumbled with the ~2mm long crystal for some minutes before I was able to lasso the bugger. I wish I was better at knots, or with my hands.
		Now I just need to make the solution for it to sit in, and then hang it around a pencil or something like that. I also have a dentist appointment today and I don't want to go because my mouth doesn't hurt and I'm fine. Ugh.
		
		It is the next morning, Mar. 13, '21. I went to the stupid angry dentist man (he's always so mad!). It went really well! He was in a good mood and even explained what he was doing when I asked him, which was a first 
		(reading this back I should probably just get a new dentist...)
		Anyway, the crystal is tied and suspended inside a clear PP container that I got from Vietnamese take-out (my love of Pho is paying off). 
		I fashioned a funnel out of a minute-rice container by using a screw, a lighter, and pliers, as I was quite tired of the no-funnel situation that has been going on for some time.
		I heat up the screw, and plunge it through the plastic container to make a hole through the lowest point when it's at about a 45? angle, but can still hold a liquid.
		I filtered the solution of Copper(II) Acetate that I electrolysed overnight through a single coffee filter in the funnel-like object I had just created. 
		The crystal was not low enough in the container for it to be submerged yet, so I immediately started another batch of C4H6CuO4.
		I have found that 200mL of 5% Acetic Acid (household distlled white vinegar) and 100mL of 3% Hydrogen Peroxide (from the pharmacy section) works much better than the 1:1 ratio suggested by many online.
		I kept having foam-overs and green solutions when I used 150mL of 5% Acetic Acid and 150mL of 3% Hydrogen Peroxide. 
		I believe the green was due to the formation of Basic Copper Acetate, or maybe, if it was really basic, Copper Hydroxide (although this might be a stretch).
		I am realizing today that I need to increase my Copper(II) Acetate solution production, or at least get some stored up so I don't have to make some everyday for a few weeks... 
		Or just do that, it's not that hard and just requires a wall outlet and 8-24 hours. 
		But I have an old vinegar container that's a gallon, made out of HDPE, and has an LDPE lid. 
		I could just start filtering into that, and keep making solution. 
		We'll see how this next day goes!
		It's afternoon now. I think I am going to keep making solution and store it, if I can keep up with the evaporation.
		That batch of solution was saturated about 1600 hours, meaning it took 8 hours total for it to get there. 
		I added it to the large single crystal vessel through the same filter as before. 
		It had a blue powder/crystal (Copper(II) Acetate) everywhere the liquid had evaporated from, and a white powder (CuO?) near the bottom/exit.
		The crystal floated in the solution as I added it, which was terrifying. The slow drip from the funnel made the surface quite unstable, and it looked like a sailboat in a hurricane.
		Luckily, it survived, and the solution didn't eat it either, which was nice to see. As the solution rose above the crystal, surface tension broke and it sunk until the string holding it was taut.
		After a few minutes, bubbles had appeared all over the crystal and string, implying it is working as nucleation sites (at least for H2O2 decomposition, meaning it is likely also a nucleation site for the acetate crystallization).
		Time to wait and see!
		Or so I thought... Checked on it after updating this just now, and it has fallen into the solution, out of my slip-knot :(
		It's still sitting at the bottom, so it doesn't seem like it is dissolving, but it might be slowly, I guess.
		I'm not sure what to do next, as I want that crystal out of the solution but it's all the way at the bottom and I don't have anything to grab it with.
		I could filter the whole solution again into something else, just to get that one crystal out. That would also let me re-tie the same crystal if I wanted to.
		Or I could just get a new crystal, tie that on, and plunge it into the solution...
		Hmm...
		I filtered the solution (through the same filter) into a new container. After much dismay, I was able to get the tiny, tiny seed crystal back into a slip-knot. 
		I initially tried another crystal, but I couldn't tie it after like 15 minutes, so I went to the one I used originally. It had a better shape that allowed it to be lassoed by the knot much better.
		After hanging the crystal back in the original container, I poured the solution back from whence it came.
		It is hung once again!!!
		Now to wait, and hope for the best :)
		The best has not occurred....
		The crystal fell into the solution.
		I just think it is not saturated enough. My next batch I will run for 16 hours total, at least.
		To solve the problem I have now, I'm just going to let it evaporate until I see crystals. That should mean it is a saturated solution. 
		Then, I can filter and tie another one of my seed crystals on, and, truly this time, hope for the best :)
		
		It is Mar. 14, '21.
		I've had some time to think.
		I am going to transfer the solution in the crystal growing vessel (vinegar/H2O2) into another container for evaporation. Once I have some Copper(II) Acetate stored up (at least 40-50g), I'll be ready to actually start...
		
		NEXT TIME: I am going to use water as my crystal growing medium, instead of using the vinegar/H2O2 mix directly. I believe I am having a hard time getting to saturation, meaning solvent is left behind.
		This left-behind solvent carries over to the crystal growing vessel, and dissolves my seed crystal. I could just run each batch of solution for a long, long time, but that seems impractical.
		I'm going to evaporate the vinegar/H2O2 off to get the Copper(II) Acetate crystals. I will dissolve those in water until it is saturated, then filter that into my crystal growing vessel.
		This should prevent the seed crystal from dissolving by gauranteeing a saturated solution, especially if I heat the water slightly above room temperature (which is what it will be growing at).
		
	

	- Green Fire V2 (Copper(II) Chloride + Ethanol) - Mar. 14, '21
		
		The nickel(II) chloride and copper(II) chloride, obtained from dissolving nickels in HCl and H2O2, was powderized between a folded sheet of paper with the back of a screwdriver.
		This powder was split into a small portion, to which a small amount of ethanol was added, and a large portion, to which a lot of ethanol was added.
		This was done to see how dilute I could make the solution and still have it turn the flame green.
		Waiting for darkness to fall for testing...
		Well, it sucked.
		The more dilute solution just burned blue until dryness.
		The completely saturated solution that was dark, dark green burned blue for 5-10 seconds, then popped and erupted into green for about 20 seconds (which was really cool).
		It left behind a lot of residue that could still burn green if fuel was added and it was ignited, however.
		So, I have one that's too weak, and one that's so strong I'm wasting the Copper(II) Chloride.
		It seems like doing this in a liquid solvent might be the basis of my dilemma.
		I will research into powder-based alternatives, I have seen some pyrotechnics compositions that look promising, and I think I can get my hands on what I need.
		
		NEXT TIME: I would not do this, as Copper(II) Chloride just doesn't get used efficiently when burned in a liquid fuel. Powders when in doubt-ers, or something.
		
	

	- Nickel(II) Chloride - Mar. 14, '21
	
		I have dissolved US five-cent pieces (75% Cu, 25% Ni) before, but not just the nickel. I dissolved both the nickel and copper, leaving me with an impure end product.
		To selectively dissolve the nickel, I am going to be boiling the copper-nickel alloy in aqueous HCl.
		If kept wet, the heat should speed the dissolution of the nickel, while staying out of the range of copper reacting with HCl at all (430 ?C).
		I am going to cut up some nickels as to expose more surface area, than plop some acid on top and boil it.
		
		It is Mar. 15, '21, and this morning I cut up the nickels while I was creating some more copper electrodes.
		Turns out, nickels are much, much stronger than pennies.
		Copper-nickel alloys must be much, much harder than zinc, is my guess.
		The small bolt-cutters I used before didn't cut through, they merely made a dent.
		Same for the full-size bolt-cutters.
		I ended up using a mix of a vice, pliers, and the small bolt-cutters to bend it into pieces.
		I am going to boil this in HCl, hoping to leech out the nickel metal as a salt (Nickel(II) Chloride) and leave the copper behind for further processing.
		
		I just did the stoichiometry.
		A US five-cent piece weights 5 grams. 
		A US five-cent piece is 25% Nickel.
		5 grams * 25% = 1.25g of Ni per US five-cent piece
		A mole of nickel weighs 58.6934 grams, so 1.25g of Ni is equal to 0.0212971134 moles.
		
		We need double that of HCl, as the reaction is Ni + 2(HCl) -> NiCl2 + H2
		
		0.0212971134 moles * 2 = 0.0425942268 moles
		1 mole of HCl weighs 36.458 grams.
		0.0425942268 moles of HCl is equal to 1.55290032 grams.
		I have HCl in an aqueous solution at 20% concentration, which has a density of 1.1g/mL.
		1.1g/mL * 20% = 0.22g/mL
		1.55290032 grams / 0.22g/mL = 7.05863782 milliliters
		
		10mL of 20% aqueous hydrochloric acid per US five-cent piece is a stoichiometric excess of acid.
		I will be using 6 nickels, so that would be about 60mL of acid. 
		This seems like a small amount to boil down (too small, in fact), so I am going to dilute the acid with some water, making the total volume around 100 to 200mL.
		Now, all I have to do is prepare the solution, boil the nickels in the solution, and extract as much nickel as I can!
		I think I will do this tomorrow, as it is getting late and I'm a lazy fuck.
		
		The morning of Mar. 17, '21, has rolled around, and I am ready to do some boiling!
			I have created the diluted HCl solution, and am ready to add the nickels, and start the reaction!
			I still am amateur, so I have no lab glass, meaning I will be boiling in a mason jar.
			This is not ideal, but not not-ideal, so I can make it work.
			I will be using a sand-bath on top of a hot-plate for even heating.
			The nickels will act as my boiling chips/nucleation sites for bubbles.
			I am using a pyrex measuring cup set over the top of the mason jar to reduce the amount of liquid lost to evaporation.
			As copper does not react with the hot HCl (the whole point of this), I will be using an old copper electrode to stir it while it is hot.
			I don't have any glass stir rods yet and I'm pretty sure most steels would get destroyed by the HCl, so silver-ware is out, and copper pipe is in!
			I am now ready to go boil the nickels which will react the Ni metal in them with the hot HCl, and form Nickel(II) Chloride in solution.
			After filtering, I should just be able to evaporate it off and be left with some nice, relatively pure Nickel(II) Chloride.
			
			Immediately upon boiling, my power went out :(
			The phones were down at my electric company, as well :(
			Luckily, it came back on after 15-30 minutes while I was in the bathroom!
			Woo-hoo!
			I turned the hot-plate back on and we were good to go.
			After about 30 more minutes we were boiling again.
			The solution was slightly green/yellow at this point but it could have been from impurity in the HCl I'm using, at this point.
			Luckily, as time went on, the solution became more and more green.
			I should have timed when I started boiling :/
			I think it's been 3-4 hours at this point, 1300 hours on Wednesday the 17th.
			I have had to add more HCl twice now so it does not dry out.
			If I had a condenser, I could reflux the acid and not have to do this, but, sadly, I'm stuck with the 'measuring-cup watch-glass method' for now.
			I think I'm going to make this into a YouTube video, as the only ones I've seen FAILED horribly because they were impatient and added H2O2, which oxidizes the copper and ruins the separation of the two metals.
			By boiling the copper-nickel alloy, we are speeding up the nickel reaction, and have no chance of dissolving the copper metal at all in boiling HCl (~108 ?C).
			
			It is now 1700 hours on the 17th of March. I have been boiling this solution for over 7 hours at this point. It has definitely turned green.
			It's not as dark as I would like, so I'm going to keep boiling. Luckily, it is a well-behaved reaction as long as there is plenty of liquid around.
			The mangled five-cent pieces are great nucleation sites for the bubbles caused by boiling.
			They really weren't kidding when they said Ni reacts with HCl slowly... I had tested room temp and a day did nothing, but I thought boiling would speed it up way more than this.
			I may end up turning it off overnight, and reheating tomorrow after adding some acid.
			But we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
			For now, I'm checking on it periodically and making sure it doesn't get below ~100mL.
			This is excessive, but I'd rather err on the side of caution.
		
		Mar. 18, '21, has rolled around, and I forgot to update the entry last night.
			The solution was a lime-green, and completely clear after 10-12 hours of boiling.
			Basically, all I did once reaching the stop-point was turn the heating off, pop on some oven gloves, and filter the hot solution through a coffee-filter to remove any chunks of copper from the nickels that was left.
			Unfortunately, I didn't fore-see the hot liquid just tearing straight through my filter :(
			Although the filter tore right away, I still was able to decant most of the clear liquid and leave behind the solid bits of metal at the bottom, so it's not a total failure.
			I brought the decanted solution inside to the evaporation station (a shelf with a fan blowing on it) to cool overnight.
			Even after a few minutes, I could see crystals starting to grow on the bottom of the solution as it cooled.
			So exciting!
			
			When I woke up this morning, I checked on the solution (I really should have used a container with clear walls :*
			The solution has gone from completely clear, tinted green to completely black, tinted green.
			I'm hoping this is from evaporation, and is just Nickel(II) Chloride in solution with a high concentration, giving it a black color due to the green on top of green on top of green on top of green, etc.
			It reminds me of the Copper/Nickel(II) Chloride solution color, so I am still hopeful that I have the right product, and that it didn't degrade from exposure to air or something.
			
			I poured the solution into a glass oven dish to be able to see it better, and evaporate faster.
			
		Mar. 19, '21 - The solution has started to crystallize out some Nickel(II) Chloride (by the looks of it).
			The bottom of the dish is drying out, leaving behind a very thin skin of the nickel salt.
			I kind of want a bigger crystal, so I have put something under one side of the dish as to let it rest at an angle.
			All the fluid is gathered on one side now, hopefully allowing for more of the crystals to grow in one spot. We'll see :).
			
		Mar. 20, '21 - The slight film of liquid left behind on the un-covered surface, when I tilted the evaporation dish, has left such a thin film of crystals that it looks clear/white in color.
			The edges of where the solution had gathered have shown significantly thicker crystal growth than before, meaning the tilt was not in vain :).
			
			It is the afternoon now (~1700 hours), and there has been a development. The Nickel(II) Chloride has formed crystals!
			There is a ring of vertical disc-shaped crystal clusters that formed at some point during evaporation. Interestingly enough, there is a gap with no crystals between the ring and the top of the solution.
			I'm thinking the crystals were able to grow that large by siphoning from the solution, until it got too far away and couldn't get past gravity? I don't know, just a guess.
			But the color is amazing! I'm so happy this worked out. It seems there might be some Copper(II) Chloride mixed in, based on the fact that there are some blue-looking, spiky patches through-out the crystals.
			There is about 10mL left in the bottom edge of the 200x200mm oven dish, so not much longer to go! 
			As an interesting side note, I also had some Copper(II) Acetate drying in the evaporation station, past the Nickel(II) Chloride.
			It seems to me the HCl gas/vapors made there way through the air-stream and reacted with the copper acetate, forming copper chloride.
			Luckily, it was just left-over on the bottom of the evaporation dish from when I had already collected it, as I would not have liked all of it to go blue/green.
			This is a good reminder to be careful about what I evaporate next to each other :).
			
		Mar. 22, '21 - I need the dish that the crystals are growing in, and they are completely dry, so I'm going to collect them today.
			It seems like the copper chloride color went away after a few days, meaning it could have been the nickel chloride but slightly dehydrated.
			I now have the characteristic lime-green color of Nickel(II) Chloride Hexahydrate!
			After scraping the container, I transferred the crudely-crushed substance onto a piece of paper, folded it in half, and started powderizing with the handle of a screwdriver.
			After it was all powderized, I used a paper funnel to transfer the salt into a small, glass vial.
			The Nickel(II) Chloride is all safe and in storage! Woot woot!
			I will have to weigh the salt and try to figure out a yield from the 6 nickel coins I used.
			
			Theoretical Max: 1.25g * 6 coins = 7.5g Ni
			
			Ni is 45.288% of the total mass of Nickel(II) Chloride Anhydrate, the rest being chlorine.
			7.5g/45.288 = total mass / 100
			0.165606783 grams = m / 100
			m = 16.5606783 grams
			Theoretical Maximum Yield: 16.5606783 grams of Nickel(II) Chloride Anhydrate.
			
			But, I have the hexahydrate... So,
			24.693% of Nickel(II) Chloride Hexahydrate is Ni, the element.
			7.5g/24.693 = total mass / 100
			0.303729802 grams = m / 100
			m = 30.3729802 grams
			ACTUAL Theoretical Maximum Yield: 30.3729802 grams of Nickel(II) Chloride Hexahydrate.
			
			Actual Yield:
			% Yield:
		
	

	- Copper(II) Hydroxide - Mar. 17, '21
		
		A copper-ammonia complex can be formed by mixing copper and ammonia over time, with an excess of ammonia. I have left bare copper wire in clear ammonia (the household cleaning kind) since Mar. 7, '21.
		
		Copper Hydroxide can be precipitated from Copper-Ammonia complex solution by adding a solution of NaOH. 
		The sodium hydroxide destroys the ammonia, meaning the complex is no longer stable.
		Because of this, the copper hydroxide crashes out of solution, due to it not being soluble in water alone.
		After this, all that's needed is a simple filtration, then to dry what we filtered off.
		We should be left with some beautiful baby-blue Copper(II) Hydroxide!
		
		I still have the copper metal in my solution, so I will need to filter it to get that out first.
		Once the copper metal is out, I will be able to add the NaOH solution which will precipitate Copper(II) Hydroxide.
		I can then wait for this to separate, and decant the liquid off of the CuOH.
		I can then filter to get the last bit of liquid out, then leave to evaporate to drive off any remaining moisture.
		Once dry, I should have relatively pure CuOH.
		
		Yeah this didn't work. At all.
		I dissolved 20g of sodium hydroxide in 200g of water (which is 200mL). I waited for it to clear up.
		I filtered my copper-ammonia complex, made by reacting copper and ammonia with an oxidizer (I used ~20mL 3% aqueous hydrogen peroxide) through a coffee filter.
		This removed the bits of copper metal, and also some white looking powder, but only very little. I'm not sure what this was. Maybe CuO?
		With my clean copper-ammonia complex solution filtered, and my NaOH solution ready, I poured the NaOH into the copper-ammonia complex solution.
		Nothing happened. I mean, the volume increased, but that's expected. The color lightened but only by what you would expect by adding water.
		I'm not sure what I did wrong. Maybe the hydrogen peroxide messed things up? Or maybe I didn't have the correct copper-ammonia complex, or something. I really don't know.
		:(
		
		NEXT TIME: I don't fackin' know tbh
		
		

	- Ammonium Sulfate Crystallization - Mar. 24, '21
		
		Ammonium Sulfate is soluble in water, and forms crystals.
		My dad has a giant bag of ammonium sulfate leftover from gardening, and doesn't really want it anymore.
		So I told him, I can grow some crystals with it!
		Ammonium Sulfate has a Molarity of 4.1M at 25 C.
		One mole of Ammonium Sulfate is 132.14 grams.
		132.14g/mol * 4.1 moles = 541.774 grams / liter
		So, a 200mL batch would require (541.744 / 5) = 108.3488 grams of ammonium sulfate.
		
		To keep it easy, I'll use 200mL of room temperature water, and 100g of ammonium sulfate, which is a stoichiometric excess of solvent.
		
		I've measured ~100g of Ammonium Sulfate.
		I've measured ~200mL of water, slightly warm from the tap (I should be using distilled water).
		I dissolved the 100g of sulfate into the water, forming a near-saturated solution.
		I filtered the solution through a coffee-filter to remove any insoluble, particulate contaminants.
		I clearly labeled the solution, including the date.
		I set the solution in the evaporation station to grow crystals.
		I will update as I notice changes.
		
		Mar. 27, '21 - Not Much Happened Yet
		
			Around ~50mL has evaporated from the solution. Some crystals are starting to form on the walls of the container that used to be covered, but they are very small.
			It appears to have clouded up slightly, so I assume we are reaching saturation of the solution and will see some crystals within a few days.
			
		
		Mar. 29, '21 - Something Happened!
		
			It is very slight, and basically transparent due to how thin it is, however, a raft of crystals have formed on the top of the surface.
			The floating crystals were very hard to notice, due to being colorless. I'd say there is 1-2cm squared of surface area taken up by the crystal raft.
			
		
		Mar. 30, '21 - Ew...
		
			The 'raft' of 'crystals' seems to have been a misnomer...
			It now looks to be a colony of bacteria, or something. Almost exactly like what an inoculated agar plate looks like.
			It is hanging into the solution almost an inch from the surface, and has a few different globs of mass, but it is all connected.
			
		Apr. 1, '21 - Not Sure How, But We Did It
		
			The raft of crystals that appeared to be a mushy white colony of bacteria has disappeared.
			A film of some sort has formed over the surface of the liquid. 
			Any disturbance, like me touching the side of the container, caused a lot of it to break apart and fall down to the bottom of the container.
			The bottom of the container has small (5mm in their largest dimension) crystals, with short, fat spikes forming on the top surface of the crystal. 
			The whole crystals make an outline of a rectangle, although the faces are definitely not neat.
			It seems like the bacteria died off, or are surviving on the walls of the container, or something. All I know is they are out of the solution.
			Or, it was just ammonium sulfate crystals that happened to be white, cloudy, and such, and I was fooled.
			Either way, I'm happy with how the project is progressing!
		
	

	- Copper Metal Crystals V4 - Mar. 24, '21
		
		Woo-hoo! After V3, I was left with some beautiful trees! I'm going to do mostly the same thing again, except I will add less saturated Copper(II) Acetate solution as it evaporates.
		The excess copper acetate all collected in the bottom, and took up space that could have been crystal-growing solution.
		To counter-act this, I will be using fresh solution to top it off, instead of pre-saturated solution.
		This should keep roughly the same amount of copper acetate in the vessel as when I started, and not keep building up as a layer of sediment.
		To clean the vessel of the copper acetate sediment, I just poured in 500mL of vinegar and 200mL of hydrogen peroxide (2.5:1 ratio), and that dissolved most of the excess acetate.
		To this solution, I added the copper electrodes, turned on power, and started up V4! This caused some bubbling at the negative electrode, and all of the excess copper acetate to start dissolving.
		The bubbles sometimes carried up bits of copper acetate that hadn't dissolved yet, so I had fun looking at the bits dancing around in the solution for quite some time.
		I am using the same wire as the negative electrode that I did in V3. It is covered in bulbous growths of copper metal, and a few spots are reaching ~5mm or so toward the positive electrode in a tree-branch-like structure.
		I am hoping these act as 'seed crystals' and help to form larger, stronger crystals, as opposed to growing on a new length of bare wire.
		
		Mar. 27, '21 - Little Update
		
			I posted some pictures online and got a ton of advice. To get larger, stronger crystals with electrolysis, I need to reduce the current and/or voltage.
			Currently, I am using a 5v USB Charger as the power source. This is not current regulated, and is probably spitting a few hundred milliamps through the electrodes.
			To solve this, I will use an adjustable LDO voltage regulator, once I get them. This will allow me to set a lower voltage, or current, to my desires.
			For now, I will just grow some more weak copper trees, because they are beautiful and I like it :).
			
			The solution has evaporated over an inch at this point, so I will refill the container. I am not going to be using saturated solution, and will just use water to try and dilute the solution for larger crystals.
			When adding saturated solution each time, more and more crystals build up in the vessel. By adding water instead, the solution can re-dissolve any crystals that happened to fall out of solution due to evaporation.
			
		
		Mar. 29, '21 - Refill #2
			
			The solution had evaporated a little less than an inch, so I decided to top it off again with fresh water.
			Ideally, I would be using distilled water, but tap water will do the trick for now. I refilled back up to it's original volume, and let it continue.
			
		Apr. 01, '21 - Refill Tres, ya sick fuck
			
			I refilled it with water from my water bottle again (cold tap water). 
			The 'main' crystal are about halfway to the other electrode. 
			Their structure resembles the previous run, almost identically.
			I can't wait to get some LM350's! I should be able to limit the current to like 10-100mA for some chonky crystals.
			
		
	

